[[general-guidelines]]
= General Guidelines

The titles are marked with the corresponding labels: {MUST},
{SHOULD}, {MAY}.

[#100]
== {MUST} Follow API First Principle

As mentioned in the introduction, API First is one of our
https://github.com/zalando-incubator/zalando-tech-principles[engineering
and architecture principles]. In a nutshell API First requires two
aspects:

* define APIs outside the code first using a standard specification
language
* get early review feedback from peers and client developers

By defining APIs outside the code, we want to facilitate early review
feedback and also a development discipline that focus service interface
design on...

* profound understanding of the domain and required functionality
* generalized business entities / resources, i.e. avoidance of use case
specific APIs
* clear separation of WHAT vs. HOW concerns, i.e. abstraction from
implementation aspects — APIs should be stable even if we replace
complete service implementation including its underlying technology
stack

Moreover, API definitions with standardized specification format also
facilitate...

* single source of truth for the API specification; it is a crucial part
of a contract between service provider and client users
* infrastructure tooling for API discovery, API GUIs, API documents,
automated quality checks

An element of API First are also this API Guidelines and a
https://github.bus.zalan.do/ApiGuild/ApiReviewProcedure[lightweight API
review process [internal link]] as to get early review feedback from
peers and client developers. Peer review is important for us to get high
quality APIs, to enable architectural and design alignment and to
supported development of client applications decoupled from service
provider engineering life cycle.

It is important to learn, that API First is *not in conflict with the
agile development principles* that we love. Service applications should
evolve incrementally — and so its APIs. Of course, our API specification
will and should evolve iteratively in different cycles; however, each
starting with draft status and _early_ team and peer review feedback.
API may change and profit from implementation concerns and automated
testing feedback. API evolution during development life cycle may
include breaking changes for not yet productive features and as long as
we have aligned the changes with the clients. Hence, API First does
_not_ mean that you must have 100% domain and requirement understanding
and can never produce code before you have defined the complete API and
get it confirmed by peer review. On the other hand, API First obviously
is in conflict with the bad practice of publishing API definition and
asking for peer review after the service integration or even the service
productive operation has started. It is crucial to request and get early
feedback — as early as possible, but not before the API changes are
comprehensive with focus to the next evolution step and have a certain
quality (including API Guideline compliance), already confirmed via team
internal reviews.

[#101]
== {MUST} Provide API Reference Definition using OpenAPI

We use the http://swagger.io/specification/[OpenAPI specification] (aka
Swagger spec) as standard for our REST API definitions. You *have to
provide the API definition in YAML format* (instead of JSON) for the
OpenAPI API definition files due to its improved readability.

Please stick to version 2.0 of the specification for now, until we
succeed to update all our tooling to support the upcoming version 3.0.

We also call the OpenAPI API definition the "API Reference definition"
(or "API definition"); as a reference manual it provides all information
needed by an experienced API client developer to use this API.

The OpenAPI API specification file should be subject of version control
together with source code management. Services also have to support an
<<191,endpoint to access the API Reference definition>> for their external API(s).

Furthermore you should make use of
https://github.com/zalando-incubator/zally[Zally], our own API linter
which supports you in designing a guideline compliant API. You find more
information in the Github repository itself and in
https://pages.github.bus.zalan.do/ApiGuild/ApiReviewProcedure/[API
review procedures [internal link]].

[#102]
== {SHOULD} Provide User Manual Documentation

In addition to the API as OpenAPI Reference Definition, it’s good
practice to provide an API User Manual documentation to improve client
developer experience, especially of engineers that are less experienced
in using this API. A helpful API User Manual typically describes the
following API aspects:

* API’s scope, purpose and use cases
* concrete examples of API usage
* edge cases, error situation details and repair hints
* architecture context and major dependencies - including figures and
sequence flows

The User Manual must be posted online, e.g. via GitHub Enterprise pages,
on specific team web servers, or as a Google doc. And don't forget to
include a link to this user manual into your OpenAPI definition using
the “externalDocs” property.

[#103]
== {MUST} Write APIs in U.S. English
